LOIS: [Singing]
"It seems today that all you see
"is violence in movies and sex on TV
"But where are those good,
old-fashioned values
"on which we used to rely?
"Lucky there's a family guy
"Lucky there's a man who'll
positively tell you
"all the things that make us
"laugh 'n' cry
"He's a family guy"
DIANE: And that concludes
our special half-hour salute...
...to the past 1,000 years.
We leave you this New Year's Eve...
...with a look back at those
we've lost this millennium.
[Sentimental instrumental music]
MEG: Kevin asked me to Quagmire's
millennium party! I am so psyched!
There's nothing like a party
at someone else's house.
You never have to worry about cleaning.
[Chanting conga music]
Looks like someone's going
to a big party tonight.
You should pick up a chicken-strip
party pack for all your friends.
Here's a coupon.
Whoa, look, pal. I don't take coupons
from giant chickens. Not after last time.
Oh, yeah. And that nice chicken outside
gave me this coupon.
I'm sorry. This has expired.
You son of a...
[Suspenseful instrumental music]
[Intense instrumental music]
I'm gonna need these by Friday.
Is that gonna give us enough time
to crosscheck the...
Chicken gave me a bad coupon.
[Dramatic instrumental music]
-Some other time, pal.
-There won't be any other time.
The world is gonna end
at midnight tonight! Y2K!
Y2K? What are you selling?
Chicken or sex jelly?
Haven't you heard? At midnight,
every computer in the world is gonna fail!
Planes will fall out of the sky...
...and the world's nuclear weapons will
explode, annihilating the entire planet!
No!
Silly rabbit! Trix are for kids.
Damn long-ears,
trying to take Easter away from Jesus.
Sorry. What were you saying?
CLEVELAND: Hey, in case you didn't know,
a balloon tied to a mailbox...
...is the international symbol
for "party over here"!
Forget the party.
The world's gonna end! Y2K!
I heard it from a chicken-man.
[Laughing]
Oh, Peter,
you are the height of just-too-mucherie.
PETER: Laugh all you want.
But when you die,
you'll have to go to heaven.
And you know what?
I bet you run into those
two dead bailiff ladies from Night Court.
You won't know which one is which.
And it's going to be really awkward.
So bite me.
Can you help me with these damn studs?
Aren't you a little over-dressed?
Actually,
I'm just stopping off at Quagmire's.
There's a benefit gala
at the Boston Pops tonight, and...
...I'm trying to nail the flautist.
LOIS: Oh, Stewie! You're adorable!
Yes. I rather like the sash.
But do the Huggies make my ass look big?
Peter, come on! You've had 1,000 years
to get ready for this party.
It always takes him so long
to get dressed.
We're gonna be late
for my cousin's wedding.
Aren't you dressed yet?
Oh, crap.
One of us is gonna have to change.
Unzip me.
-Where's your father?
-He's still down in the basement.
LOIS: Peter, you've been down there
all day. I hope you're already...
Oh, my God! The government is here!
Run, ET, run!
[Screaming]
The end of the world is coming.
Get in your radiation suits.
Peter, we are not missing
a once-in-a-lifetime event...
...because of some
wacko doomsday theory.
Okay. Hey, guys.
You know that one Christmas present
you really wanted but didn't get?
MEG: A phone?
CHRIS: A pony?
PETER: A humidor?
STEWIE: A dead Lois?
It's in the basement.
Come on. Let's go see.
MEG: My own phone!
CHRIS: I'm gonna name him Sparky.
LOIS: What the hell?
Peter, if you want to stay here,
that's fine.
But we're going to the party. Kids!
-Honey, are you pregnant?
-No.
[Loud crashing]
Oh, dear me. Yes. This is how
I wanted to enter the new millennium.
Locked in a basement with imbeciles
dressed like a gay Neil Armstrong.
Thanks a lot, Peter.
I could be in Boston, pretending I give
a rat's ass about Vivaldi.
And I could be getting felt up by Kevin.
Meg, don't you give it all away up front.
Make him work for it.
And shame on you, Peter.
Scaring the kids
with your nuclear-holocaust nonsense.
You said "nuclear." It's "nucular," dummy.
The "S" is silent.
CHRIS: It's almost midnight.
DIANE: We now go live to Asian reporter,
Trisha Takanawa.
Trisha, what can you tell us?
Diane, Quahog's fabled alabaster clam...
...is about to descend
and usher in a new millennium.
CROWD: 10, 9, 8...
This is it!
ALL: ...6, 5, 4...
Hold on tight!
CROWD: ...3, 2, 1. Happy New Year!
[Cheering]
A flautist, Peter!
Well, I hope you're happy.
Come on, kids.
We can still make the party if we...
[Earth rumbling]
[Whooshing]
Nice work, Lieutenant. Very festive.
Actually, each of those lights
represents a missile launching by itself.
The pattern is just a coincidence.
Now that you mention it,
the "Y" is a little misshapen.
Still, it's pretty amazing.
[Explosion]
Oh, what the hell. Come here, Hillary.
What did I miss?
PETER: Holy crap! Anybody else feel that?
PETER: Good morning, family.
Lois, you remember
when I was the third Hardy Boy?
Peter, there was no third Hardy Boy.
Oh, really?
Just like there was no apocalypse?
He shoots! He scores!
[Crashing]
Okay, we were wrong about the end
of the world and you were right.
Can we please just drop it?
It's just not fair.
I finally get a date with Kevin,
and he gets vaporized!
CHRIS: He's just using that as an excuse.
[Laughs]
LOIS: Let's just be grateful we survived
the apocalypse healthy and mutation free.
CLEVELAND: I said I can do it.
QUAGMIRE: Shut up!
PETER: Hey, Clevemire.
-That's "Quagland."
-Quagland? You must be dreaming.
Not about kicking your fat ass!
Boys, please. You used to be so close.
Sorry, Lois.
We're a little crabby,
on account of the fact that...
...neither one of us has had any food
since we got fused together.
Wow. We just finished off
what was left in the kitchen.
When I think of all the food
we've wasted in this house...
Here, Tom Selleck. Come on.
Down the hatch. Come on.
None for you, Higgins!
Trying to steal Tom Selleck's food!
No. You've had yours!
Thank goodness, Peter bought a supply...
...of dehydrated meals before the blast.
Peter, what are you doing?
You just ate a year's worth of food!
What a waste of money. I'm still hungry.
[Slushy oozing]
Everyone leave. I have to poop. Now!
BRIAN: So much for finding food
at the Stop 'N Shop.
Figures. The one time
I remember my Value Club Card.
Wait a minute. I smell barbecue.
[Gasping]
So what do you think, Diane?
Can I cook, or what?
DIANE: Delicious, Tom.
I guess we should be eating her
with chopsticks.
Oh, my God!
They're eating Asian reporter,
Trisha Takanawa.
That's crazy. They're just gonna be
hungry again in an hour.
Come on, Woody.
We're gonna search for food.
Sorry, Chris. The plant can't come.
It's his best friend.
Lois, it'll just be another mouth to feed.
I'll take care of Woody, son.
[Gunshot]
-What was that?
-Nothing. Let's go.
Go where? If there's no food in Quahog...
...what makes you think
there's gonna be food anywhere else?
Everyone knows there are only two things
that can survive a nuclear holocaust...
...cockroaches and Twinkees.
And there's a Twinkee factory in Natick.
-Twinkees?
-Yeah. I saw a story about them on A&E.
TV ANNOUNCER: And now back
to A&E's Biography, "Twinkee the Kid."
It was difficult for Twink
to play with other children.
He was different.
He was definitely... He had no bones.
And he couldn't really play any sports.
Yeah. That's why we got him the lasso.
SHEILA: He'd spend hours in the backyard
playing Wonder Woman.
[Laughing]
He's gonna kill me.
He loved that lasso.
Not as much as the baton.
But we put a stop to the baton.
He was different enough.
If we find that Twinkee factory,
we'll have all the food we need.
Good-bye, sweet home.
Maybe someday we'll return.
Joe, can you keep an eye on the place?
I might as well. I'm melted to the ground.
There you go, Mr. Swanson.
These oughta keep the rats away.
Thanks, hon. Stay in school!
[Roaring]
Bring it on!
Look, Peter! People!
JORAD: Halt!
I am Jorad.
I and my band of highway warriors
control this territory.
-Do you have any food?
-No. That's why we're on the road.
Then you may not pass until you answer
the following question.
Name something you take on a picnic.
MEG: Blankets.
BRIAN: Potato salad.
CHRIS: Chicken.
STEWIE: A dead Lois.
Okay. We're gonna go with potato salad.
Show me "potato salad"!
[Whispering] Maybe we should go now.
PETER: Jeez! Out of gas?
Hey, Dad, look!
OLD MAN: Howdy, strangers.
You look plumb tuckered.
Like to sit a spell?
-Actually, we are tired.
-And hungry.
We got plenty of room here
and all the fresh apples you can eat.
Oh, Peter! We found a new home!
What? We're going to Natick!
For what? A Twinkee factory
that might not even exist anymore?
She's right.
Besides, this place is paradise.
-Sure is. Except for Randy Newman.
-Randy Newman?
OLD MAN: Yup. Just sits there all
night and day singing about what he sees.
[Playing piano]
"Fat man with his kids and dog
"drove in through the morning fog
"Hey there, Rover, come on over"
It's nice to have music while we eat.
"Red-headed lady, reaching for an apple
"Gonna take a bite, nope, nope
"She's gonna breathe on it first
"wipe it on her blouse
"She takes a bite, chews it once
"twice, three times, four times, stops
"The wife is thinking,
takes a long, hard look at Randy
"Five times,
fat old husband's walking over"
LOIS: Let's get the hell out of here.
"Yeah, they're walking down the road
"Left foot, right foot,
left foot, right foot, left..."
CHRIS: [Singing]
"Left foot, right foot, left foot"
Please, Chris.
Mommy's got a big headache. Stop it!
Thank you, sweetie.
Now, Peter, we've gotta find some food.
Oh, my God! Look!
It's Natick.
[Cheering]
There's no factory?
Very good, fat man!
We follow the Pied Piper of Hamsteak...
...to the gates of oblivion,
and look what it's brought us!
We're finished! We're done!
Game over, man! Game over!
STEWIE: Damn it!
LOIS: Get out of that nuclear waste!
Who knows what animals
have been in there?
[Suspenseful instrumental music]
[Cheering]
STEWIE: It's about damn time!
No words... Should have sent a poet.
There's enough food to last us forever!
Peter, we're saved! You were right.
We can settle down here and build
a house, just like we had in Quahog.
We can build a mall,
so I'll have a place to hang out!
And two Denny's, so we can always say:
"Let's not go there.
Let's go to the good one."
We can have Quagland
get Joe out of the driveway.
And we can build a community,
just like the one we had.
No! We'll build a better one.
I hereby proclaim this city New Quahog!
[Energy pulsating]
This isn't very good, now, is it?
[Cheerful instrumental music]
[Quagmire screaming]
-Guess who?
-Stop it, Chris.
Wrong! Wait. Did you say "Chris"?
Stewie, time for breakfast!
Did you wash your tentacles,
my big handsome boy?
What the devil are you talking about?
Handsome? I'm repugnant!
I'm a radio-bloody-active freak!
I fold. Come on, let's go home
and get tender with your wife.
I don't know, Quagmire.
Lovemaking with Loretta
has somehow lost its intimacy.
All right!
BRIAN: Excuse me, Mr. Mayor.
An outsider
who wishes to join our community.
Welcome to my fair city!
If you want to become a citizen,
you have to get a job.
Before the disaster, I was a physician.
That's terrific. We need a doctor.
We sure do. Let's hope you get it.
Now pick a job out of the hat.
"Village idiot." That's a good one.
On Tuesdays,
you get to wave your penis at traffic.
Congratulations.
JOE: Maybe we should've
just let him be a doctor.
No! These are the rules of New Quahog.
Besides,
that's how everyone else got their jobs.
Go!
[Frantic screaming]
You see, Doc, my back tooth is killing me.
[Screaming]
And things have worked out fine so far.
Peter, no offense,
but that's because we all pitched in.
That's right.
We built schools, and hospitals.
Yeah, not to mention the theater.
"But when I saw the movie,
it looked like Audrey Hepburn not only...
"...didn't have breakfast at Tiffany's,
she hadn't eaten anything in a year.
[Hooting]
"I am such a bitch!"
We have everything we need.
And no crime, no guns, no pollution.
Brian's right.
We've left ourselves defenseless.
Guys, we need to make some guns.
Guns? Guns only lead to trouble.
When that trouble happens,
we'll be ready
to blow its freakin' head off!
Besides, without guns...
...how would our forefathers
settle their differences?
8, 9,10, and turn!
Honey, Mommy's making you
some new feetie pajamas.
And look, it has a little trap door
for when you gotta make inky.
I'll show you inky!
-Let's see if they fit.
-Never!
[Mocking laughter]
Look at me! I'm Fred Astaire!
Gotcha. You are getting heavy.
I'll have your dad flood the basement...
...so you can get some more exercise.
Yes. I do seem to have gained
a bit of girth.
Actually, my gullet seems to be rumbling.
[Grunting]
There we are.
I say. I've laid an egg!
That wasn't so bad.
I don't know what these women
are always complaining about...
PETER: Attention, New Quahogians.
Today my vision for our future comes true.
A chicken in every pot,
and a cap in every ass!
Peter, put that away! Where did you get
the metal for all those guns?
Recycling. I used the pipes
from our irrigation system.
WOMAN: Are you crazy?
You destroyed our water pipes?
MAN: We don't need guns!
We need food and water!
I have a canker sore on my lip!
And I keep poking at it with my tongue!
But that's only making it worse!
PETER: There's a reason
I'm in charge here, okay?
I knew the world was gonna end.
I'm the one who found the Twinkee factory
and started this town.
I'm the one who gave
elocution lessons to Rosie Perez.
That's nothing to be proud of!
[Imitating Rosie Perez] Don't be stupid!
She speak good and everything!
CROWD: Let's get him! Throw him out!
LOIS: Wait! We can work this out!
I haven't been thrown out of any place...
...since I was a counselor
at the bulimia clinic.
Man, did anybody else throw up
after eating that fish last night?
[Dramatic instrumental music]
That's the last of them!
Good riddance! What the hell
would we ever need guns for?
STEWIES: Victory is ours.
[Citizens screaming]
MAN: Quick! Grab the guns!
They're our only hope!
Bob, you remember the other day,
you asked me...
...what the definition of irony was,
and I said...
[Screaming]
[Explosions]
Honey, I'm sorry I got us
kicked out of New Quahog.
I guess nobody really needs guns.
I'm not always right, after all.
Oh, Peter.
Hearing you say that almost makes it
worth having the world blown up.
Where are we gonna go?
I hear there's a Carvel factory
in Framingham.
All right! Fudgie the Whale!
And Cookie Puss! And Cookie O'Puss!
And Nutty the Chocolate Ghost!
LOIS: Come on, everybody.
Let's sing a song.
CHRIS: "Left foot, right foot,
left foot, right foot"
[Mysterious instrumental music]
PAM: Bobby!
BOBBY: Good morning.
Oh, Bobby. I just had the weirdest dream.
I dreamt I saw the strangest episode
of Family Guy.
And there was a giant chicken!
And Stewie was an octopus.
Hey, hey. Come on now.
It's all right.
Everything's gonna be okay.
What's Family Guy?
[Theme music]